Stardate 51474.2.
Captain's Log,
SISKO:
The Defiant has been ordered
to investigate a rare
subspace compression
phenomenon
in Federation space.
recently discovered
This scientific assignment
is a welcome change
from months of combat duty
against the Dominion.
Three of my officers
are taking a runabout
into the anomaly's vortex.
The runabout and its crew
to severe spatial distortion,
will be subjected
to minimize the effect.
so we have activated
a tractor beam
So, uh... how
small are they?
The miniaturization
process won't begin
until the runabout
reaches the edge
of the accretion disk.
I see. And, uh...
then they'll
begin to shrink?
Yes, sir.
( chuckling )
Major, are
you laughing
at our investigation
of this subspace anomaly?
No, sir.
The data collected here could
provide Starfleet with the key
to creating transwarp corridors
through space.
It could give us
a substantial
tactical advantage
over the Dominion.
Oh, it's very
important research.
What?!
I'm not laughing.
I... just because
we are shrinking
three people
to the size
of coffee cups--
( laughing )
Smaller, actually.
what is so humorous
I do not see
about being small.
Neither do I.
( incoming com beep )
On screen.
Their visual
signal's
degrading, Captain.
We have audio only.
Go ahead, Rubicon.
We're about to enter
the accretion disk.
DAX:
I wish I were
with you, old man.
I'll send you a postcard.
Tell Worf I look forward
to hearing his poem.
I bet it'll be inspiring--
( static buzz )
We'll talk again
once we've left
the accretion disk
and reversed
the effects of the compression.
Rubicon out.
Good luck, Rubicon.
We've lost their signal,
Captain.
Thank you, Ensign.
Mr. Worf.
Poem?
( sighs )
Klingon tradition
It is an ancient
an important event
to commemorate
with a poem.
Jadzia asked me to compose one
for this occasion.
Well, what have
you got so far?
the accretion disk.
They've penetrated
Now, is it
my imagination
or did the kid
just cover for him?
This could be
the beginning
of a beautiful
friendship.
They are getting smaller.
NOG:
Even the space
within their subatomic
structure is shrinking.
I wonder
what it feels like.
I don't feel any smaller.
Well, believe it or not
you're about a meter tall
and shrinking fast.
In a few minutes,
you're going to be half
the size of a combadge.
There's
a comforting thought.
The gamma ray flux
is increasing.
the blast shutters.
We should close
DAX:
Take a last look.
We're on sensors
from here on.
You're sure we'll return
to our normal size
once we clear
the anomaly?
The probes did.
You saw the data.
Something wrong?
No, I'm fine.
I'm... just not in love
with the idea of being small.
What are you smirking at?
You're as small
as I am.
Actually, you're sitting
1.14 meters closer
to the focal point
of the anomaly,
which means you've shrunk
.04 percent more than I have.
What was that?
The tractor beam
is fluctuating.
Something's wrong.
( yelling )
The Jem'Hadar are coming around
for another pass!
Radiation from the vortex
their warp signature.
must have masked
Return fire, Mr. Worf.
Ensign, pull the Rubicon
out of there.
Phasers are off-line.
We're a
sitting duck
as long as we're tethered
to the runabout.
I'm not going to leave them
in there if I can help it.
to Auxiliary Control
Mr. Worf, go down
and target the phasers
manually.
I'm losing the Rubicon, sir.
Aye, sir.
to get out of here,
If we're going
I need warp power now!
I'm on it.
SISKO:
Report.
Shield generators and impulse
engines are off-line, sir.
Warp engines, too.
or you will all be killed.
Surrender,
( whoosh of transport )
DAX: Chief, you okay?
I think so.
DAX: Julian?
I'm fine, but you're not.
Oh, that's better.
That was the easy part.
Well, the good news
is we're alive, so we
must have escaped
the anomaly.
is the external sensors
The bad news
and the com system are down.
I can patch around
most of the damage,
but it'll take time.
Better add the blast
shutters to your list.
I can't get
them open.
There you go.
Good as new.
Oh, you don't suppose
that thing'll work
( chuckles )
on our
communications system?
I'm picking up the Defiant's
transponder signal.
We can home in on that.
Going to
one-quarter impulse.
Chief, either
open these shutters
or give me
external sensors--
whichever's quicker.
I need to see
where we're going.
The bridge is secure.
Tactical report.
The bridge officers
are confined
in the mess hall--
other survivors
in the cargo bay.
back on line in 30 minutes,
We will have impulse power
but it will
take several hours
to restore warp capability.
It must be gratifying
for an Elder
to end his career
with a victory.
I feel privileged
to be here with you
at such a moment.
There is still much to do
before we declare victory.
Until we leave
Federation space,
we are vulnerable to--
I am First,
and I have
declared victory.
That is, of course,
your prerogative.
Open a channel
to the Vorta.
SIXTH: Yes, First.
We have
the boarding party.
Ah, First. Your report?
The Defiant is ours.
Good. Very, very good.
initially quite skeptical
I must admit, I was
and the other new Jem'Hadar
about you
bred in this Quadrant,
but this is
a most impressive debut.
Wouldn't you agree, Elder?
The takeover
of the ship
was competently
executed.
Do I detect a note of jealousy
in your voice?
I'm sure it must be difficult
a new race of Jem'Hadar
for you to watch
beginning to supplant you
and the other members
of the old guard.
I serve
the Founders.
If it is their will
to create a new race,
then that is
the order of things.
But...?
But the Jem'Hadar bred
here in the Alpha Quadrant
have not proven
themselves superior
to those
in the Gamma Quadrant--
at least not yet.
Not yet?
It is the Alphas
who made this victory possible.
If it were not for us,
you would never--
You two can argue about this
on your own time.
until you restore warp power?
First, how long
I will make a complete
survey of the ship
and give you a report
in one hour.
Very well.
I await your report.
Bring me Captain Sisko.
that his execution can wait
I would suggest
until we have completed repairs
to the ship.
I'm not going to execute him.
Are you about to question
my order, Second?
No.
Obedience brings victory.
And victory is life.
Find the ship's transponder
and shut it down.
I don't want
anyone tracking us.
Yes, First.
And get these chairs
off the bridge.
Thanks.
That's enough.
I should have foreseen this.
I should have sent out
reconnaissance probes
to scan for enemy ships,
or a shuttle,
or recalibrated the sensors.
If I had, Jadzia--
NOG:
None of that would
have done any good.
The Jem'Hadar
approached us
from the anterior angle
of the anomaly.
Their warp...
signature...
He's just trying
to tell you that--
I do not need him
to tell me anything.
Everybody settle.
First of all,
we don't know
what happened
to the Rubicon.
For all we know, they got
out of the anomaly
on their own.
If they did,
they're headed home,
and in much better
shape than we are.
So let's hold off
on analyzing our
mistakes for now.
If they restore warp power,
we'll be analyzing them
from inside
a Dominion prison camp.
Restoring warp power...
might not be so simple
for them.
It took us a week
just to learn how to
pilot one of their ships.
We might have a chance
to retake
the Defiant,
but we can't do anything
unless we can get
out of this room.
Suggestions?
Captain Sisko...
come with me.
Everybody sit tight.
I'll be back.
We've lost the Defiant's
transponder signal.
Coming to
a full stop.
isn't at this end.
The problem
stopped transmitting.
They must have
Try the shutters.
I can't keep
flying blind, Chief.
( metallic clanking )
Nice work.
Ask and ye shall receive.
O'BRIEN:
What the hell is that?
DAX: Some kind of wall?
In the middle of nowhere?
There's a symbol up there.
Wait a minute.
a large black circle.
It looks like
Anything else?
Hold on.
Chief...
you're not going to like this.
I thought you said we'd return
to our normal size
We should have.
once we left the anomaly.
We didn't leave
the anomaly
by the same path by
which we entered it.
So the process failed
to reverse itself.
Are you telling me
I'm going to be
this bloody tall
for the rest of my life?
This bloody tall,
actually.
But don't worry--
to regain our original size
all we have to do
is reenter the anomaly
and follow our original
trajectory back out.
In theory.
Well, I'll tell you
what isn't a theory.
We're going to need
the Defiant's help
to reenter the anomaly.
how do we get their attention?
With communications out,
Fly up to a window
and knock?
Wait.
If we're... this big?
That means the Rubicon
is what, this big?
More or less.
And the Defiant's aft
plasma vent is...
this big?
DAX:
Are you suggesting
that we take the Rubicon
inside the Defiant?
Well, why not?
Getting past the anti-back flow
valve might be tricky
but once we're inside,
we've a better chance
of attracting
someone's attention than
we do sitting out here.
I love it. Let's go.
The engineering team reports
that we can start
the impulse engines
in 12 minutes.
Good.
Captain Benjamin Sisko...
the one the Bajorans
call "the Emissary."
I am First Kudak'Etan.
you are the reason I exist.
In a strange way,
If you had not
eliminated our fleet
there would have been no need
in the wormhole,
to breed Alpha Quadrant
Jem'Hadar.
You didn't bring me
here to say thank you.
No. The impulse
engine sustained
only minor damage
in our attack,
was severely damaged.
but the warp drive
your technical expertise
I will need
in order to repair it.
Bring Captain Sisko
to the Engine Room
so he may begin
necessary repairs.
It's a mistake.
Giving him access
to the Engine Room
will only give him
an opportunity
to retake the ship.
In fact, he's
working on a plan
at this very moment.
I was not aware
that telepathy was
a Gamma characteristic.
I know what he's thinking
because it's exactly
what I would be doing
in his position.
You should kill him now
before he has a chance
to put his plan
into motion.
You are the Second.
I am the First.
Do not presume to tell me
what to do.
I'm glad the two of you
worked that out.
Now, what makes you think
I'm going to help you?
Your choice is to repair
the warp drive,
or watch me execute
your crew one at a time.
Have Sixth Duran'Adar
select one of the prisoners
for execution
and bring him to the Bridge.
I can't do
this job alone.
I'm going to need
some of my crew.
How many?
you refuse this request.
I strongly suggest
You have the weapons.
Are you afraid
you can't handle
a few unarmed prisoners?
I won't be baited
by a prisoner...
and neither should you.
Okay, I'm in no hurry
to reach a Dominion
prison camp.
If you want me
to teach your men
how to repair a warp drive,
that's fine with me.
We'll begin with
primary command
and control systems.
about six hours--
That should take
to basic engineering theory
then we will move up
for a class-7
warp drive. Then--
Enough!
You may have the other three
Bridge officers,
but that is all.
And I'm not interested in any
more of your "suggestions."
Now take him
to the Engine Room.
Where are we, Chief?
We've just about reached
the bipolar flow junction,
I think.
You think?
Well, I'm not used to seeing
things from this perspective.
Once we reach
the flow junction,
we should be able to go up
into the secondary warp
plasma feed,
and then exit
by the diagnostic panel.
This conduit's filthy,
Chief.
Don't you ever clean up
in here?
All right, all right.
Let's not badger
the Chief.
Thank you.
It was very small of me.
I'm sorry.
Whatever it is
you're planning,
don't.
I'll be watching you,
and at the first sign
of treachery,
I will kill
all your bridge officers.
I'm a prisoner.
I have no intention--
The First may be a fool,
but I am not.
Then it is
a pity for you
that you are
not the First.
I was...
until two days ago.
If we had captured you
while I was in command,
we wouldn't be having
this conversation.
Deck Two, Section Five.
What happened?
He is an Alpha.
I am a Gamma.
and psychological profile
His DNA
for combat in this Quadrant.
are specifically designed
that makes him a better leader.
The Founders believe
What do you believe?
enough information already.
I believe I've given you
( door opens )
We have restored impulse power
and the warp drive
will be operational
in five hours.
Excellent. It's good to see
my faith in you
has not been misplaced.
The Founders will be pleased.
no more assistance,
If you require
our mission to Coridan.
I will resume
Let's hope the Federation's
dilithium miners
will be as surprised to see us
as the Defiant's crew was.
Victory is life.
Indeed.
Set course for the nearest
Dominion outpost.
Engage impulse engines.
Uh-oh.
What is it?
The magnetic plasma
guides are heating up.
They must
have initiated
the impulse
prestart sequence.
What does that mean then?
It means this entire conduit
with superheated plasma.
is about to be filled
When you say
"superheated"...
If I can't find
another way out of here,
we'll be vaporized.
Is that clear?
Crystal.
O'BRIEN:
There's a distribution
manifold coming up.
Take the left conduit.
Then make a quick right
into the relays.
Left... then right.
I hope you know
where you're going, Chief.
So do I.
Through the relays.
There's an inspection
hatch coming up
on the right.
If we can figure out a way
to open the ha--
( console beeping )
We're out of time.
( insistent beeping )
What about the hatch?
We'll have to open it
the old-fashioned way.
Let's not do that again.
No promises.
So where are
we, Chief?
We should be
in the Engine Room
near the warp core.
Right.
There's the core.
Looks like the warp
drive is off-line.
I wonder what happened.
Quite a mess.
the settings myself.
I will verify
JEM'HADAR:
What are you doing?
Realigning the dilithium
articulation frame.
Instruct him on how to
complete the realignment.
to explain than just to--
It'll take longer
Then explain it quickly.
Give him the tool.
All right.
Start by decoupling
the lateral microbrace.
DAX: That's not good.
Chief, I need visual sensors
as fast as you can
get them to me.
Right. Julian, give me
a hand down here.
Okay, you should have
visual sensors now.
The com system's
back on line.
DAX:
They're forcing our crew
to repair the warp drive.
BASHIR:
Why's the Captain
going along with this?
DAX: Good question.
But if I know Benjamin,
he's up to something.
Can you give me a tight shot
on the operations display?
I think so.
DAX:
Do you see what I see?
O'BRIEN:
Hmm. Very clever.
it's never going to work.
Oh, the problem is
The Bridge
control lockouts.
The security codes
are hardwired
the encryption circuitry.
through
Will someone please
let me in on this
conversation?
The Captain's trying
to take control
of the ship
from Engineering.
Kira is the only one actually
working on the warp drive,
but it doesn't look
like she's in any hurry
to get it done.
DAX:
I think Worf's trying
to cover their tracks.
It looks like he's sending
false signals
to the computer system.
O'BRIEN:
Nog is the key.
He's trying to override
the Bridge control lockout
so he can release
the command codes.
If he can do that,
the Captain can control
the entire ship
from the operations
console.
Nog's a smart kid,
but it's going
to take him weeks
to release the codes
from here.
Can we do anything to help him?
Not from Engineering.
If we could get to the Bridge,
we could release the codes
from there.
One thing at a time.
Wait a minute.
How?
First, we need to get
out of the Engine Room
without getting caught.
Why is the Klingon working
on the plasma
display subsystem?
Because I told him to.
That system has
nothing to do
with warp drive operation.
Maybe not on
Dominion ships
but I'll need
to use the display
to monitor warp
plasma stability.
Pardon me.
KIRA:
Seventh, power up
the magneto-impellers
and advance the field coils.
Call out every five teslas
until I tell you to stop.
SEVENTH:
Yes, Major.
KIRA:
Easy does it.
We don't want
to burn out the inducers.
Now what?
Now we wait until someone
walks out that door.
Sixth!
Yes, Second.
Relieve the Klingon.
of the display subsystem.
Take over the repair
Immediately,
Second!
Give the Klingon
another task.
Why?
Because I said so.
Why is the warp drive
not on line yet?
He's stalling.
"Stalling"?
Your Second is the one
who's slowing
down the work.
He countermands my orders,
arbitrarily
reassigns my crew.
I can't get any work
done in here!
You were told to watch them,
not to interfere with them.
right into his hands.
You're playing
Don't you see that?
Captain Sisko...
you have 30 minutes
to restore warp power
or I will kill... her
and another of your crew
every 15 minutes
until you do.
And you, Second, will no longer
interfere with their work.
Get ready.
When he activates
the door sensor, we'll...
Nice bit of piloting.
If you liked that
you're going to love
what's coming up next.
SISKO: Any luck, Ensign?
Not yet, sir.
The system is always
three steps ahead of me.
Every time I get past
the primary security net,
the secondary
always kicks me back out
and the codes are all reset,
and I have to start
all over again.
( beep )
Ah... Like that.
Do you have a backup plan
in case this doesn't work?
Yes. I'll
destroy the ship.
There are still
a few algorithms
I haven't tried yet.
Thanks.
All right,
I'm ready to connect
the deuterium injector.
Go to the plasma relay
and power it up--
but slowly,
just like I showed you.
I'm about ten minutes away
from initiating
the prestart sequence
in the warp drive.
How's Nog doing?
Not good. You'll have
to find another problem.
( insistent beeping )
Too fast!
Reinitialize the system
and start again,
but do it at about half
the speed this time.
Well, he's not stupid.
He's already got the entire
command and control system
committed to memory.
I can't keep him
fooled forever.
In a battle of wits
between you and him,
I'll bet on you
every time.
Hmm. What kind of odds
are you giving?
First?
I've realigned
the targeting sensors.
There were errors
in the tracking subroutines.
You were not ordered
to check
the targeting sensors.
Well, I thought it
a wise precaution
in case we encountered
an enemy ship on our way home.
Your initiative pleases me.
It's a trait
that the Gammas lack.
Well, the Gammas
have many flaws.
When we return
from this mission,
there will be need
for a new Second.
I will recommend
you to the Vorta.
You will not
be disappointed.
I'm sure that I won't.
It'll be Alphas like us
that determine the
future of this Quadrant.
the new order of things.
That will be
O'BRIEN:
Looks like we need another
ticket into the Bridge.
for someone to open the door?
So how long do we wait
We don't.
I cannot access
the auto-destruct system
without drawing attention.
Plant a computer virus
in the warp plasma
subprocessor.
Set it to cause
a core breach
once the ship
reaches warp 1.
Understood.
Don't hit it too hard.
It could shatter
the control panel.
Don't worry.
I have a light touch.
Not according to Worf.
What?
Well, we certainly
can't release
the control lock
while the First
has his hand on it.
Can we bypass it?
Well, I suppose
I could reroute
the encryption
subprocessors manually.
But...?
But I'd have to leave
the ship to do it.
And I have to say, I'm
not fond of the idea.
I can think of
a thousand ways
a one-centimeter man
could get fried
walking around inside
a circuit housing.
Relax, Miles.
You wouldn't be able
to go out there
even if you wanted to.
You wouldn't
be able to breathe.
The oxygen molecules
outside
are almost 2,000 times
larger than anything
your hemoglobin
could assimilate.
You'd suffocate.
Well.
That takes care of that idea.
Unless--
Circuit housings are airtight.
I could beam a bubble
of compressed air
expand to fill the housing.
ahead of you, and it would
Well, it should work.
I mean, the air
would be thin, but, uh...
you'd be able to breathe
for about 20 minutes.
And then?
You'd pass out.
We'd pass out.
You're coming with me.
( sighs )
This might take
longer than I thought.
All right.
O'BRIEN:
safeties junction,
If we beamed in
to the primary
of heuristic subprocessors...
we should see a cluster
next to a rectilinear
expansion module.
The question is:
expansion module look like
What does a rectilinear
when you're one
centimeter tall?
What?
I haven't the faintest idea...
but it's amazing.
It's like we're in the middle
of an optronic forest.
Looks like
we need to go...
Julian,
stop!
That chip behind you
is carrying
20 microamps
Now that's not very much--
of electric current.
every synapse in my tiny body.
But it's enough to fry
Thanks for the tip.
All right,
stay right behind me.
And don't touch anything
without asking.
Believe me, I won't.
The white.
It is time.
How's it coming, Chief?
We're making progress.
Aren't we, Chief?
I'm still trying to locate
the security protocol
interlink.
It shouldn't take
much longer.
Well, the sooner the better.
a little crowded up here.
Things are getting
We pledge our loyalties
to the Founders--
( grunts )
We're all Alphas here.
Our loyalty is
demonstrated
by our actions,
not our words.
All right.
Now...
Miles...
we're lost, aren't we?
Yes, we're lost.
I can draw
these circuits
in my sleep.
never seen them
I've just...
from this perspective.
Disorientation--
it's one of the
effects of hypoxia--
lack of oxygen.
Need to focus
on a landmark.
There.
That large isolinear chip--
number 58966 stroke delta.
What is it?
Julian, there are
two dozen 66/deltas
in the asymmetric
encryption circuits alone.
All right, then
what-- what's this
here at its base?
Well, that's a four-way
interlink shunt.
So... that would mean
that this chip is...?
( sighs )
I don't know!
I told you that they
all look the same to me.
All right,
don't look at it.
Close your eyes.
What?!
Use your memory.
( exhales sharply )
Okay. There's a four-way
shunt at the base
of a 58966 stroke delta
isolinear chip...
which is where?
The only four-way
shunt near a 66/delta
is at the base...
of the master
differential relay.
That's got to be it.
So the interlink we want
has to be...?
That way.
We've got trouble.
They're cross-checking
the diagnostic protocols.
Has Nog made
any progress?
( Nog sighs )
Not yet.
( panting )
It's stuck.
( both panting )
Which one?
That one.
( panting )
No, no, no.
(panting )
That one.
You sure?
Oh...
Again.
Julian.
( both panting )
Rub-Rubicon...
m-mission complete.
Oh, I am good.
Come with me.
step away from the consoles!
All of you,
Right now!
Captain, I did it.
I don't know how,
but I released
the command codes.
Well done.
What we need now
is a diversion
before they go to warp.
Silence!
( coughs )
All the Defiant's
command functions
have been transferred
to Engineering...
but nothing's happening.
Well, maybe the Captain
doesn't realize
he has control of the ship yet.
Or maybe
he's in trouble.
The First was called
to the Engine Room
a few minutes ago.
How long has the warp drive
been repaired?
At least one hour...
maybe longer.
And they managed
to conceal it from you?
You ordered me not
to interfere with them.
I also told you
to watch them carefully.
If we had assigned
Jem'Hadar
to do the repair,
as I said--
I am not interested
in your excuses.
Bring the warp drive
on line.
Wait.
Before we activate
the warp drive,
we should check
the entire system
for possible sabotage.
That would take hours--
every minute we spend
in Federation space
exposes us to detection
and attack,
and I would hate
for your last mission
to end in failure, Elder.
Do it.
And when you have
sufficient engine
power available,
bring us to warp 4.
to take them with us.
At least we're going
FIRST:
Secure these four
with the other prisoners.
( groans )
I've got him.
Dax, upper rail.
( grunting, coughing )
This guy is really starting
to get on my nerves.
I have torpedo lock.
Fire!
( grunting )
( growling )
all the compartments
I'm flooding
except the Engine Room
with anesthezine gas.
Major, get that virus
out of the computer
before someone
on the Bridge
engages the warp drive.
Aye, sir.
SISKO:
He should have listened
to you and killed me
when he had the chance.
He was a First.
They don't need... to...
listen.
Obedience brings
victory, and victory is...
( gasps )
( runabout approaching )
Mr. Worf, I think
your wife is here.
Captain's Log, supplemental.
SISKO:
After completing repairs,
we were able to return
to the anomaly
and successfully restore
our runabout and its crew
to their normal size.
The surviving Jem'Hadar
to a Federation P.O.W. camp.
have been transferred
Is that your poem?
Yes.
Bloodwine.
Can I hear it?
It is not finished yet.
Just the first line?
Oh, please?
All right.
But it is my first poem.
I understand.
And I have worked very long
and very hard on this.
I know.
I do not wish
to be ridiculed.
I promise.
Very well.
"This is the story
of the little ship
that took a little trip."
What do you think?
It's, uh...
Well, it rhymes.
There's nothing on this padd.
( laughing )
BASHIR:
We were just minding
our own business
when suddenly, right
there in front of us
was this immense
Jem'Hadar.
He looked as tall
as a Seltan carnosaur.
We were so close,
you could see the veins
in his eyeballs throbbing.
We swung around
and ducked behind
the operations console.
I knew we had to get
our sensors back on line
if we were going
to be of any help
to the Captain
and the others.
So I said to Julian...
Is there
something wrong?
Are you sure you've returned
to your normal size?
Of course.
Why?
Well, you both appear to be
a couple
of centimeters shorter
than you were
the last time I saw you.
A changeling notices
that sort of thing.
I didn't want
to say anything,
but you do look a little...
on the petite side.
Infirmary.
And they say you don't
have a sense of humor.
( grunts )
( both chuckle )